Read about variables in Java.
So one of the variables in Java isn't they the container that saves the data values during Java program
execution.
Every variable is assigned a data type that designates the type and quantify or quantity of value it
can hold.
Did you learn about variables in Java?
What is variables in Java?
So variable in Java is a data container that saves the data values during Java program execution.
Every variable is assigned a data that is in flawed God etc. and that designates the type.
And also there is a quantity value.
So if we say in PN, that is variable in type integer and can hold value of ten.
Okay.
So this is a variable variable is a memory location name for the data.
Basically, you can say that a variable is a name given to the memory location.
It is a basic unit of storage.
In a program, the value stored in a variable can be changed during program execution of idea, but
is only a name given to memory, location and all the operations done on the variable affect that particular
memory location in Java.
All the variables must be declared before you use it in your program or your code.
How to declare a variable.
So let us see how we can declare a variable.
As I say in count, they ain't going down to the name of the variable.
An integer is a data type of the variable.
That's where it is in RN, followed by a semicolon.
This is how you declared your variable data type.
That is a type of the data that can be stored.
So for this only integer values can be stored in this particular variable.
If you try to store a string value with a date that I think it will give you error data, a new name
was given to the variable.
Whatever name is given that is called as a detainee.
In this way, a name can only be given a memory location particular.
This name is of point, the name given to the memory location.
Consider there is a memory or location assigned for that by a variable is stored its values.
And this is the account is the name for that.
Okay.
And this is a variable there.
And all of you.
What you can do, you can initialize a variable as by assigning all value or by taking the input, you
can just mention your account is equal to ten and then will be assigned to this variable.
Or you can ask user to give the input and then you will assign that particular input to this variable.
Okay.
So this is this are.
This is a way how you can be glued to the variable here in Java.
Now let us see how you can initialize a variable.
Right.
See here.
INT age is equal to 20, so data type is mentioned, variable name is age and we have assigned a value
20.
That means that very variable is initialized with the value 20 that is a memory that is solved in error
and that the memory unit has a value of 20 and the memory can be reference with the new age.
Okay.
So this is, this is how you initialize your variable.
So now let us move on and check what are the types of variables in Java?
There are local variables.
Local variables are specific to the methods or any loops inside the methods.
Local variables have a very limited scope.
That is, if it is inside a matter, then scope of the variable will become only inside the matter.
So now if you see the example mentioned here in this class, there is a metal one and in that method
one we have added a variable here index.
So if you try to add another method, you see that there are two and I'm trying to predict the value
of X.
It will not bring the value of X.
It will give you an error because scope of this variable x is only method one.
You cannot access it to using method.
Okay.
So this is about local variables.
And then next comes instance variable.
So instance variables are declared inside the class.
Okay.
You can see here instance variables are non static variables, but they are declared inside the class.
But outside method, any method on any block.
As instance, the variables are declared in a class.
These variables are created within an object of the class is created and these are destroyed when the
object of this class is destroyed.
Unlike local variables, we may use X's specified, for instance variable.
So for instance variable you can use public, private, protected.
These are the access specifiers we can use.
So if we want to make it public, if you make a class variable public, it can be referenced by other
classes.
Who?
Who is creating the object of the class?
If it is private, it can be used within the particular class.
Right.
So you can specify x as specifies in initialization of instance, variable is not mandatory, it is
default.
The value is zero and the instance variable can be accessed only by creating object onto class.
Okay.
So now if you see your int eight and it is accessible by every letter written inside the class, that
means mental one two.
And similarly, as it is also inside the class.
Right, but outside the method.
So this is an instance variable.
You can create the object of the class and you can also access this outside of this class list.
So if there is another class, you create a class, this tool which is creating object of the class
test and accessing this particular variables, then it is allowed.
There is no there are no errors.
But if I am giving this as a private that is string B, then it is only accessible within this class
test.
It is not accessible by another class.
That is test one, whatever you agree.
Right.
So this is about the instance variable static variables.
Static variables are also known as a class variable because they are also declared similar to the instance
variable.
They are also declared in a class outside of method.
Static variables are declared using a keyword static.
Okay.
So if you see a static in it.
So the static keyword is important to specify.
This variable is a static variable.
Unlike instance variable, we can only have one copy of a static variable for class irrespective of
how many objects we create.
Whatever objects we are creating the instance, the reference will be only one.
So static variables are created at the start of the program execution and it destroyed automatically
when the execution ends.
Initialization of static variable is not mandatory.
Its default value is zero.
Same like instance.
If the x is the static variable like the instance variable, the compiler will show the warning message
which won't hold the program.
The compiler will replace the object name with the class name automatically.
Okay.
So now.
So the thing in static variable you can access directly with the class name like best note eights or
you can if you are accessing within this class itself.
So you can use this dot E and even if you create object, let test equal to new test.
If you create object of test that is D and you try to access with P dirty, it will give you a warning,
but execution will.
The done and it itself converted convert it into class new.
Okay.
It will not hold your execution.
So this is about a local variable instance, variable and static variables.
Now in next module we will learn about data types.